Add support for Multi-tenant accounts and cross-tenant token caching (#6536)
AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js: lib/msal-common/docs/multi-tenant-accounts.md

# Multi-tenant Support in MSAL JS SDKs

> > This is an advanced document regarding the handling of accounts to acquire tokens across tenants in the `msal-browser` and `msal-node` SDKs. For basic account information, please review the [Accounts](./accounts.md) document.

Reviewer: State what MTAs are as the subject/topic of the doc rather than saying it's "advanced".  If there is recommended reading on what MTAs are on the public docs, you should link them here too.

Author: I haven't found any public-facing docs that talk about multi-tenant accounts specifically, if I find some I'll add them here.

In addition to tenant-specific account data, multi-tenant accounts also contain a `Map` of the **tenant profiles** for the account corresponding to each tenant the user has authenticated with.

## Tenant Profiles

Conceptually, a tenant profile is the record of an account in a specific tenant. In MSAL JS SDKs, [TenantProfile](https://azuread.github.io/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/ref/types/_azure_msal_common.TenantProfile.html) objects contain the subset of the `AccountInfo` properties that vary by tenant. They are created by using the claims from the ID token issued by each tenant the user authenticates with.

`AccountInfo` objects returned from `acquireToken` and `getAccount` APIs contain a `Map<string, TenantProfile>` object called `tenantProfiles` where the key is the tenant ID and the value is the `TenantProfile` for that account in that tenant.

MSAL uses these `TenantProfile` objects to match and build the tenant-specific `AccountInfo` objects required through all of MSAL's flows. They can also be used by client applications for different purposes such as facilitating account selection logic and displaying account data for the user across tenants.

> > Warning: While MSAL can return a tenant-specific `AccountInfo` object for each tenant profile, tenant profiles are not actually different accounts, they are only representations of the same account in the different tenants the account has authentiated with. **If a user uses different accounts to authenticate to each tenant, these will not be linked as tenant profiles of eachother and will be treated as completely different accounts that cannot be used to access eachother's tokens**.

Reviewer 2: A couple typos:

```suggestion
> Warning: While MSAL can return a tenant-specific `AccountInfo` object for each tenant profile, tenant profiles are not actually different accounts, they are only representations of the same account in the different tenants the account has authenticated with. **If a user uses different accounts to authenticate to each tenant, these will not be linked as tenant profiles of each other and will be treated as completely different accounts that cannot be used to access each other's tokens**.
```

## Usage

### Authenticating with Multiple Tenants

In order to authenticate with multiple tenants, you can use either `login` or `acquireToken` APIs normally, only setting the authority to the particular tenant you are requesting tokens for.

> Note: For `login`/`acquireToken` interactive APIs, the tenant context is set from the authority's `tenantId`.

```javascript
const msalConfig = {
    auth: {
        clientId: "ENTER_CLIENT_ID",
        authority: "https://login.microsoftonline.com/HOME_TENANT", // This is the authority that MSAL will default to for requests that don't specify their own authority.
    },
};

const myMSALObj = new PublicClientApplication(msalConfig);

// handleRedirectPromise has to be called to resume redirect requests

> myMSALObj

Reviewer 2: initialize?

    });

// Authority isn't specified because it is already the default set in the MSAL Config object
const homeTenantRequest = {
    scopes: ["HOME_TENANT_SCOPE"],
};

// Guest tenant authority overrides the MSAL config authority, meaning the user can authenticate with the tenant they are a guest in and acquire tokens for it
const guestTenantRequest = {
    scopes: ["GUEST_TENANT_SCOPE"],
    authority: "https://login.microsoftonline.com/GUEST_TENANT",
};

const homeTenantAuthResponse = await myMSALObj.loginPopup(homeTenantRequest);
// Get the home tenant account from the AuthenticationResult
const homeTenantAccount = homeTenantAuthResponse.account;

const guestTenantAuthResponse = await myMSALObj.loginPopup(homeTenantRequest);
// Get the guest tenant account from the AuthenticationResult
const guestTenantAccount = guestTenantAuthResponse.account;
```

Assuming the user logs into both tenants with the same account, once both login requests are successfully completed and the user has authenticated with each tenant, the cache will contain:

-   2 ID tokens (one per tenant)
-   2 Access tokens (one per tenant)
-   1 Refresh token (one per account, shared across tenants)

> -   1 AccountEntity containing both tenant profiles. The `homeTenantAccount` and `guestTenantAccount` objects shown above are both created from the same cached account entity augmented by the claims in their respective ID tokens.

Reviewer 2: Cache details are technically implementation details and we don't actually guarantee this (especially in the case of RT when we start talking about any sort of brokering). Perhaps better to rework this to simply state that ID and Access tokens are tenant specific but RTs are not and skip cache discussion.

### Acquiring Tokens Silently for Multiple Tenants

In order to acquire cached tokens for a particular tenant, the `AccountInfo` object for that particular tenant must be passed into `acquireTokenSilent`. In order to get the correct account to pass into acquire token silent, you can either:

-   Use the `AccountInfo` object returned from an interactive API call to that tenant:

```javascript
// Original interactive call to home tenant
const homeTenantAuthResponse = await myMSALObj.loginPopup(homeTenantRequest);
// Get the home tenant account from the AuthenticationResult
const homeTenantAccount = homeTenantAuthResponse.account;
.
.
.
// Acquire a home tenant access token silently
const homeTenantSilentResponse = await myMSALObj.acquireTokenSilent({
    account: homeTenantAccount,
    ...homeTenantRequest,
});

// Original interactive call to guest tenant

> const guestTenantAuthResponse = await myMSALObj.loginPopup(homeTenantRequest);

Reviewer 2: Do you actually need an interactive call for each separate tenant or can you go straight to ATS since the RTs are shared?

Reviewer 2: Assuming this was needed due to not having the accountinfo object yet for the tenant you're requesting. I'd suggest instead that if you don't have the tenanted account yet folks can invoke ATS with the home account or account hint, tenanted authority & forceRefresh or CachePolicy to silently get the guest tenant tokens

Author: Reworked the sample code to handle this better using a custom function that checks if the tenant profile is already in the cache and if not it uses acquireTokenSilent with the `CacheLookupPolicy.RefreshToken` with the guest tenant authority.

FWIW, `ssoSilent` can also be used but I didn't want to add complexity since the doc is already long and verbose and that's msal-browser specific. I'll add a section to the login docs or a special doc for it soon.

// Get the guest tenant account from the AuthenticationResult
const guestTenantAccount = guestTenantAuthResponse.account;

// Acquire a guest tenant access token silently
const guestTenantSilentResponse = await myMSALObj.acquireTokenSilent({
    account: guestTenantAccount,
    ...guestTenantRequest,
});
```

-   Use the `getAccount()` API with the desired `tenantId` as a filter and use the `AccountInfo` object returned:

```javascript
const homeAccountId = "HOME_ACCOUNT_ID"; // Shared across tenant profiles
const homeTenantId = "HOME_TENANT_ID";
const guestTenantId = "GUEST_TENANT_ID";

// Get the home tenant account
const homeTenantAccount = myMSALObj.getAccount({
    homeAccountId: homeAccountId,
    tenantId: homeTenantId,
});

// Get home tenant token
const homeTenantAuthResponse = await myMSALObj.acquireTokenSilent({
    account: homeTenantAccount,
    ...homeTenantRequest,
});
```

### getAllAccounts with Multiple Tenants

> When any account in the MSAL cache contains multiple tenant profiles, `getAllAccounts()` is expected to return a full `AccountInfo` object for each tenant profile that satisfies the filter provided. If no filter is provided, every tenant profile for every account will be returned as a full `AccountInfo` object by default. This means that even if there is only one account object in the cache, multiple `AccountInfo` objects may be returned from `getAllAccounts`.

Reviewer 2: Again, avoid discussion around cache details

Author: Removed implementation details re: caching logic.

            }
        });
} else {
    // If the tenant profile isn't found in the account, that means the user hasn't authenticated with that tenant. This is the custom getToken function from the first example.

>     const guestTenantAuthResponse = await myMSALObj.getToken({

Reviewer 2: getToken?

Author: Updated, thanks!
